# Table of Contents

**[1. Introduction](#1-introduction)**\
[1.1 Purpose](#11-purpose)\
[1.2 Document Conventions](#12-document-conventions)\
[1.3 Project Scope](#13-project-scope)

**[2. Overall Description](#2-overall-description)**\
[2.1 Product Perspective](#21-product-perspective)\
[2.2 Product Features](#22-product-features)\
[2.3 User Classes and Characteristics](#23-user-classes-and-characteristics)\
[2.4 Operating Environment](#24-operating-environment)\
[2.5 Design and Implementation Contstraints](#25-design-and-implementation-contstraints)\
[2.6 Assumptions and Dependencies](#26-assumptions-and-dependencies)

**[3. System Features](#3-system-features)**\
[3.1 Functional Requiremenets](#31-functional-requiremenets)

**[4. External Interface Requirements](#4-external-interface-requirements)**\
[4.1 User Interfaces](#41-user-interfaces)\
[4.2 Hardware Interfaces](#42-hardware-interfaces)\
[4.3 Software Interfaces](#43-software-interfaces)\
[4.4 Communication Interfaces](#44-communication-interfaces)

**[5. Nonfunctional Requirements](#5-nonfunctional-requirements)**\
[5.1 Performance Requirements](#51-performance-requirements)\
[5.2 Safety Requirements](#52-safety-requirements)\
[5.3 Security Requirements](#53-security-requirements)\
[5.4 Software Quality Requirements](#54-software-quality-requirements)

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Purpose

The purpose of this document is to build an online service to manage tracking, analysis and development
of software using the Scrum methodology.

### 1.2 Document Conventions

| Abbreviation | Meaning                  |
| ------------ | ------------------------ |
| SaaS         | Software as a Service    |
| SPA          | Single Page Applications |

### 1.3 Project Scope

The purprose of the online issue tracking platform is to enable multiple teams to develop many
projects based on the Scrum methodology.\
The platform will support the relative domain specific features such as Epics and Stories.\
The platform will be provided as a service (SasS).

## 2. Overall Description

### 2.1 Product Perspective

### 2.2 Product Features

### 2.3 User Classes and Characteristics

### 2.4 Operating Environment

### 2.5 Design and Implementation Contstraints

### 2.6 Assumptions and Dependencies

## 3. System Features

<!-- ### 3.1 Functional Requiremenets -->

1. A **REGISTERED USER** will be able to do the following:

   - Login
   - Search for projects/users
   - Create projects
   - Invite other users to projects
   - Ask access for public projects
   - Join in private projects only via invite

   | Features                     | Free | Premium |
   | ---------------------------- | ---- | ------- |
   | Unlimited number of projects | ❌   | ✔️      |
   | Private project creation     | ❌   | ✔️      |

2. An **UNREGISTERED USER** can only do the following:

   - view users
   - view public projects
   - create an account

3. A project will support the following:

   - Modify permissions for individual users (only those with ADMIN permission will be able to do that. By default, the creator of the project will be ADMIN. The creator cannot change the permission of themselves)
   - Create, view and delete issues (based on the user permissions)
   - Permissions:
     - ADMIN: will be able to create/modify/view/delete issues and change permissions of other users
     - VIEW: will be able to view issues
     - WRITE: will be able to create/modify issues
     - DELETE: will be able to delete issues

4. Inside a project, the users may have specific roles:

   - Scrum master:
     - is responsible for arranging and optimizing backlog
     - sprint planning/review
   - Product owner:
     - is responsible for arranging and optimizing backlog
   - Development team members:
     - create issues
     - analyze and edit issues, discuss etc.

5. An issue will support/have the following:
   - Modify issue: Change any of the fields below.
   - ID (autogenerated), Key (autogenerated based on project's name).
   - Title
   - Type:
     - Epic: An issue representing a high level idea of what we want to do/achieve as a whole with requirements. Usually an Epic is something that cannot be completed in a Sprint (a sprint is usually 2 weeks)
     - Story (feature): A story is an issue representing a fraction of the feature that we want to implement as part of an epic. This is basically a deliverable that can be developed and tested within the time of a sprint based on the requirements that were formed with the product owner
     - Bug: An issue that tracks a defect in the implementation of a feature that came up during the sprint or after being released
   - Priority: Blocker, Major, Normal, Low
   - Status:
     - New: An issue that was just created. We need to fill in details of the issue when we are on this status
     - Open: An issue that has all the details filled in and is ready to be analysed
     - Blocked: An issue that has been descoped and will be probably be prioritized in the future again
     - In Development: An issue that has been analysed and is currently being developed
     - To Test: An issue that has been developed and dev tested and is ready to be tested by a QA
     - Resolved
   - Resolution
     - Unresolved: It has not been resolved yet
     - Done: It has been successfully developed and tested
   - Labels: A custom field that can be filled by the user in order to give a special meaning to the ticket (e.g part of specific functionality features)
   - Description
   - Comments
   - Assignee
   - Reporter
   - Dates: Created, Updated, Due date
   - Time tracking: Estimated, Remaining, Logged
   - Fix version(s)
   - Issue Links: Depends on, Relates to
   - Epic link

## 4. External Interface Requirements

### 4.1 User Interfaces

- Front end software: HTML5, JavaScript
- Back end software: Java, SQL

### 4.2 Hardware Interfaces

- Any operating system that supports JVM and Postgre SQL
- Any browser compatible with HTML5 and JavaScript ECS6

### 4.3 Software Interfaces

| Software Used | Description                                                                                                                          |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Java          | We have chosen Java that supports almost every commercial operating system due to JVM support                                        |
| Database      | To save the Epics, Stories, Bugs and Users we have chosen Postgre SQL                                                                |
| React         | We have chosen React for the front end because it has the fastest rendering, good support for most browsers and SPA are more dynamic |

### 4.4 Communication Interfaces

The project supports all types of web browsers and software platforms as it uses JSON to communicate which is platform agnostic.

## 5. Nonfunctional Requirements

### 5.1 General Characteristics

- Our platform will have Greek as its "basic" language, but it will also support English.
- Anyone will be able to access the platform's website via a web browser.
- The currency supported by our platform to purchase a plan is only
  the euro.
- We will ensure the availability of information, ie users will have at their disposal at all times the data and resources necessary for the operation and use of our platform.

### 5.2 Performance Requirements

- Will be able to handle multiple simultaneous user requests.
- Even after an error the user will be presented with clear messages
  error so as not to be "trapped".
- The response of the interface to the actions of the user will be very fast.

### 5.3 Security/Safety Requirements

- We will not save the passwords as plain text(we will provide hashing).
- When the user tries to login he should not be able to do SQL injection.
- Since we have more than one distinct role in our system(basic users, premium users, different project roles), it follows that permissible actions of each role must be clearly delimited. We will ensure that in no case any of the system roles will have access to possibilities of another.
- We will ensure the integrity of the information, ie we will protect any kind of data of our company from any modifications, additions or subtractions.
- We will prevent, through various mechanisms, the access and use of the components of our system by unauthorized/unregistered users.
- Sensitive corporate and personal data, such as credit / debit card information, will remain secure against unauthorized uses.

### 5.4 Software Quality Requirements

- Our platform will be designed following the best design practices and
  software implementation. We will try to achieve the best possible breakdown software in individual subsystems (abstraction). As a result, maintenance, reuse and expansion of the software will be performed without difficulty, which allows us to continually improve our user experience.
- Reliability: our platform will run continuously, without interruption.
- Our system will properly process each input data according to specifications that we have set and will produce the right output.
- Connectivity: it will be easy to create and modify (in the future) one
  interface for communicating our system with another system.
- The need for system portability will be met, ie it will be easy to transfer to another environment in the future.
- Our system will be easily manageable, ie it will be easy to set up and maintain mode.
- It will be easily maintainable as we will be able to easily adapt our platform to new user requirements and correct any errors.
- In addition it will be easily scalable, will have the ability to function properly and be efficient if we change its scope.
- The process of testing the functionality and performance level of the system, after each change, will be easy and fast (test driven developement).
